It seems like usage metrics right now do data aggregation about
projects.  Instead of having the system dump interesting interactions
to a file or database, when these services are called it checks the
projects etc. for characteristics and generates the info.

An alternative method would be to log the data to a file on a daily
basis, then have cron jobs run data extraction routines on the files
daily, and store the data in the database.  Then, the data can be
aggregated, by month, day, year, averages etc.  Because for time
related metrics once the day, month, year has passed, that usage is
static/final.

Are there metrics that we would like to know about that can't be
captured like this?


Synopsis of current metrics - 

There seems to be a literal scoring of projects according to certain
criteria, like number of users, number of organizations etc.

This all seems like business logic that shouldn't be hardwired into
the code, but broken out somehow.


Several main categories of metrics.  
Snapshot
Recurring data points (referential through time)
Ongoing totals

So some examples:
Snapshot - Current state of active vs inactive users, active vs
inactive projects.  These are 'snapshot' because we don't care what
users were considered active two months ago, we care about right now.

Recurring - Number of users logged in, number of projects updated.
Interestingly, this uses the same data as the current active/inactive
metrics, but is computed in a totally different way.  It's relevant to
have this information for getting a high level view of usage patterns,
and depending on the granularity, can show the difference between
having more users in one country versus worldwide.

Ongoing totals - to stick with the same theme, ongoing totals would be
projects created, total users, and other metrics computed from these
This is interesting to have as a pure number and as a graph over time,
so you could get a sense for incoming user spikes, or project creation
spikes.
